---
title: "Schedule and Required reading"
categories:
  - introduction
tags:
  - image
  - Post Formats
author_profile: false
sidebar:
  nav: sideMenu
---

The course will be made available in 4 parts:

__Part 1__ will be available on __16 January__. This part will set the scene to provide an understanding of the predicament humanity faces, the history of human development in the Holocene, as well as providing an overview of the approaches needed to identify and seek solutions. these include a social-ecological system perspective and transdisciplinary approaches.

__Part 2__ will be available on __30 January__. This part will start looking at how to set the goal of sustainability. First we will delve into the problem of how humanity has become disconnected of the biosphere, and the approaches that are being used to reconnect to it, including understanding of ecosystem services and the role of urbanization. Then we will take a closer look at what sustainability means, how to define it and different approaches to implementing it into governance. For this part we will also make the case studies available which will be important for starting to write the first essay.

__Essay 1 assignment__ will be assigned on the __13 February__. You will have one week to complete this essay and it should be handed in no later than  the __20 February__. Detailed instructions about this assignment will be made available to you on the 13th of February.

__Part 3__ will be available on the __20 February__. In this part we first go back to understanding the system, particularly understanding system dynamics and the nature of change. We will be looking at a complex adaptive systems perspective, networks in social and ecological systems and how to think about the notion of system resilience. Then we will start to look at the tools for implementing change, including markets, taxes and subsidies, institutions and stakeholder participation.

__Part 4__ will be available on the __6 March __ In this part we will look at how to invoke change, through adaptive governance, knowledge creation, creating common goals and social network management. We end the course content with some concluding remarks.

__Essay 2 assignment__ will be assigned on the  __6 March__.This will be your second essay assignment, you will have around two weeks to complete it and it should be handed in no later than the  __19th of March__. Detailed instructions about this assignment will be given on the 7th of March.

 __Participation grade__ .All parts of this course have a corresponding take-home section. In this sections discussion forum, you are required to make a summary of your personal important insight. You should make one summary for each part of the course, so 8 in total. Participation in this discussion is required to receive full credit for the course.

# Schedule, grading and assessments

<iframe width="700"  height="394"  src="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UXtmPwAKqgbUt07t7mKnmP75yeQPQAGxEGBQeTCGCrk/pub?embedded=true"></iframe>

[Direct link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UXtmPwAKqgbUt07t7mKnmP75yeQPQAGxEGBQeTCGCrk/pub?embedded=true)

# Other info
{% capture notice-2 %}
Most pages have a __challenge yourself__ section with questions. These are not obligatory, they are meant to help your understanding by thinking about the course material. If you find them hard, make a discussion on the course content forums to get feedback! We will be there!
{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--info">{{ notice-2 | markdownify }}</div>
## Required reading

The following is a list of the reading material required for this course


* __Setting the scene__:  None

* __The Anthropocene__: [Steffen et al. 2003](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3357752/), [Rockström et al. 2009](http://www.ecologyandsociety.org/vol14/iss2/art32/)

* __Reconnecting to the Biosphere__: [Folke 2011](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3357749/)

* __Sustainability__ : [Griggs et al. 2013](https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/index.php?page=view&type=400&nr=844&menu=1301), and comment by SRC centre researchers: [Norström et al. 2013](../Coursefiles/SocialChangeVital.pdf)

* __System dynamics__: [Rocha 2014](https://lms-sdsn-new-infra.edcastcloud.com/c4x/sdsn/464pb/asset/Regime_Shifts..pdf)

* __Governance toolbox__: [Folke et al. 2005](http://research-legacy.arch.tamu.edu/epsru/Course_Readings/Ldev671MARS689/LDEV671_Readings/AdaptiveGiv_annurev.energy.30.050504.144511.pdf)

* __Invoking change__: [Folke et al. 2005](http://research-legacy.arch.tamu.edu/epsru/Course_Readings/Ldev671MARS689/LDEV671_Readings/AdaptiveGiv_annurev.energy.30.050504.144511.pdf)

 __Please make sure to check out the Required Reading section for each module! Reading this material will greatly help your understand and learning.__
